October 2024 newsletter blog (#254)
ddev/ddev.com: src/content/blog/ddev-oct-2024-newsletter.md

---
title: "DDEV October 2024 Newsletter"
pubDate: 2024-10-01
#modifiedDate: 2024-09-06
summary: DDEV October 2024 Newsletter
author: Randy Fay
#featureImage:
#  src: /img/blog/2024/09/ddev-blog.png
#  alt: DDEV running in the GitLab Pipeline
#  credit: "[Milad Fakurian](https://unsplash.com/de/@fakurian) (Background)"
categories:
  - Community
---

**Happy October from DDEV**! I just got back from DrupalCon Barcelona and things are finally starting to cool down here in Palisade, Colorado, USA.

**Podcast**! [Chad Carlson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chadwcarlson/) of [DDEV Lead Sponsor](https://ddev.com/blog/platform-sh-becomes-a-lead-sponsor-of-ddev/) [Platform.sh](http://Platform.sh) had me on the Change Mode podcast and we had loads of fun. Learn more about the history of DDEV (and my TRS-80 Model 1 Level 2) on the [Change Mode Podcast](https://www.podcastics.com/podcast/episode/chmod-106-code-community-and-ddev-randy-fays-journey-311577/).

> **DrupalCon Barcelona**: I got to see lots of friends old and new in Barcelona. Four training sessions, a full-day contribution mentoring session, and loads of fun. [**Read about it on ddev.com](https://ddev.com/blog/drupalcon-barcelona-2024).**

Author: This link won't work until I pull the other blog. It mostly needs a featured Image.

**Join us for Contributor Training**
* October 9: **[Supporting people using `ddev debug test` and other tools](https://www.meetup.com/ddev-events/events/303503564)**
* October 23: **[Using Tmate to Debug GitHub Workflows**](https://www.meetup.com/ddev-events/events/303503674)**

**GitHub Codespaces is working well with DDEV**: We used to add a lot of caveats about Codespaces, but the problems were fixed with a new workaround shown in the [DDEV docs](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users/install/ddev-installation/#ddev-installation-codespaces) say how to do it. Give it a try!

**DDEV Notes from around the web:**

- **[Using DDEV in GitLab CI Tests](https://ddev.com/blog/ddev-in-gitlab-ci)** - Jochen Roth sorted out the difficulty and made this available to all. (Note that lots of people use DDEV for automated tests of their websites in GitHub Workflows using the [github-action-setup-ddev action](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-setup-ddev).)

> - **[Install Prestashop in DDEV](https://misterdigital.es/instalar-prestashop-en-ddev/)** (in Spanish, but Google Translate makes it very accessible)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Install Prestashop in DDEV](https://misterdigital.es/instalar-prestashop-en-ddev/)** (in Spanish, but Google Translate makes it very accessible).
```

**THANKS to all of you who are supporting DDEV’s path to sustainability** and who have gotten your organizations to do so.

Want to keep up as the month goes along? Follow our [blog](https://ddev.com/blog/), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/ddev-foundation), [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@ddev), [X,](https://x.com/randyfay) and join us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/5wjP76mBJD). And of course email us any time, you can reply to this email. If you didn’t get this newsletter in your own inbox, you can. Sign up at https://ddev.com/newsletter.

> Happy October from Randy Fay, DDEV Project Lead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Happy October from Randy Fay, DDEV Project Lead.
```

categories:
  - Community
---

**Happy October from DDEV**! I just got back from DrupalCon Barcelona and things are finally starting to cool down here in Palisade, Colorado, USA.

**Podcast**! [Chad Carlson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chadwcarlson/) of [DDEV Lead Sponsor](https://ddev.com/blog/platform-sh-becomes-a-lead-sponsor-of-ddev/) [Platform.sh](https://Platform.sh) had me on the Change Mode podcast and we had loads of fun. Learn more about the history of DDEV (and my TRS-80 Model 1 Level 2) on the [Change Mode Podcast](https://www.podcastics.com/podcast/episode/chmod-106-code-community-and-ddev-randy-fays-journey-311577/).

**DrupalCon Barcelona**: I got to see lots of friends old and new in Barcelona. Four training session BoFs, a full-day contribution mentoring session, and loads of fun. **[Read about it on ddev.com](https://ddev.com/blog/drupalcon-barcelona-2024).**

**Join us for Contributor Training**
* October 9: **[Supporting users using `ddev debug test` and other tools](https://www.meetup.com/ddev-events/events/303503564)**
* October 23: **[Using Tmate to Debug GitHub Workflows**](https://www.meetup.com/ddev-events/events/303503674)**

> **GitHub Codespaces is working well with DDEV**: We used to add a lot of caveats about Codespaces, but it was fixed with new workaround and the [DDEV docs](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users/install/ddev-installation/#ddev-installation-codespaces) say how to do it. Give it a try!

Author: ```suggestion
**GitHub Codespaces is working well with DDEV**: We used to add a lot of caveats about Codespaces, but the problems were fixed with a new workaround shown in the [DDEV docs](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users/install/ddev-installation/#ddev-installation-codespaces) say how to do it. Give it a try!
```

**DDEV Notes from around the web:**

> - **[Using DDEV in GitLab CI Tests](https://ddev.com/blog/ddev-in-gitlab-ci)** - Jochen Roth sorted out the difficulty and made this available to all. (Note that lots of people use DDEV for automated tests of their websites in GitHub Workflows using the [github-action-setup-ddev action](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-setup-ddev).)

Author: IMO "to all" is fine. "you all" is southern US vernacular, now widely accepted, but less formal.

- **[Install Prestashop in DDEV](https://misterdigital.es/instalar-prestashop-en-ddev/)** (in Spanish, but Google Translate makes it very accessible)

> - **[CraftCMS Launchpad](https://craftcms-launchpad.mandrasch.eu/)** by prolific contributor [@mandrasch](https://mandrasch.dev/). Interactive CraftCMS demos in your browser, powered by DDEV.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[CraftCMS Launchpad](https://craftcms-launchpad.mandrasch.eu/)** by the prolific contributor [@mandrasch](https://mandrasch.dev/). Interactive CraftCMS demos in your browser, powered by DDEV.
```
should a definite article be added?

Author: I like it the way it is, but thanks.
